# 2026 Winter Olympics opening ceremony

The opening ceremony of the 2026 Winter Olympics took place on 6 February 2026. It started at 20:00 CET (19:00 UTC) and concluded at 23:29. It was held primarily at San Siro in Milan, but also included Livigno, Predazzo, and the streets of Cortina, Italy. This was the first opening ceremony of the Olympics which took place across four locations in the host country.
As mandated by the Olympic Charter, the proceedings included an artistic program showcasing the culture of the host country and city, with harmony being a central theme, concluding with the parade of athletes and the lighting of the Olympic cauldrons.

The Games were formally opened by the president of Italy, Sergio Mattarella. This was the first Winter Olympics and first Olympic Games opening ceremony under the IOC presidency of Kirsty Coventry.


Preparations

The opening ceremony was directed by Marco Balich and produced by Banijay Live's Balich Wonder Studio. It is the first time that there are two cauldrons in two different cities. The ceremony primarily took place at the San Siro in Milan, while there were events, including the Parade of Nations at sites in Cortina, Livigno, and Predazzo, highlighting the Games' host sites. The ceremony featured about 1,200 volunteer performers and more than 1,400 costumes; the performers participated in nearly 700 hours of rehearsals. There were nearly 61,000 spectators at San Siro, with ticket prices reaching $2,300 USD. It was filmed by Olympic Broadcasting Services (OBS) and broadcast by the International Olympic Committee's (IOC) global media rights holders.
The theme for the ceremony was "Armonia" (Harmony). Balich explained that the word harmony derives from Ancient Greek: "It means 'bringing together' in musical terms, different elements."


Proceedings

The ceremony began at 20:00 CET with a 30-second countdown. The show itself began with a tribute to Italian artist Antonio Canova, telling the story of Cupid and Psyche through a museum setting accompanied by dancers and music. After this, Italian actress Matilda De Angelis 'conducted' Italian composers Giacomo Puccini, Gioachino Rossini, and Giuseppe Verdi. Three hanging blue, red, and yellow paint tubes appeared over the stadium, releasing their colours while dancers performed, symbolising creativity and artistic expression. Their respective costumes showcased Italy's cultural heritage, cuisine, and history, most notably the character of Pinocchio and the Italian Moka pot. A brief tribute to the late Italian pop culture icon Raffaella Carrà also occurred.
A performance by American singer Mariah Carey followed, with her performing "Nel blu, dipinto di blu" in Italian and her single "Nothing Is Impossible". Afterwards, models wore costumes in the colours of the Italian flag designed by the late Giorgio Armani. Vittoria Ceretti passed the country's flag off to the Carabinieri; in Cortina, Fulvio Valbusa, Giorgio Di Centa, Pietro Piller Cottrer, and Cristian Zorzi did the same to an all-women Carabinieri. At San Siro, Italian singer Laura Pausini performed "Il Canto degli Italiani", while a mountain choir did the same simultaneously in Cortina d'Ampezzo.
The Olympic rings were unveiled during a segment featuring dancers showcasing the 'harmony' between the city (Milan) and the mountains (Cortina), symbolising the two host cities of the Games. Then a premade video shows two kids holding two plushies of the mascots of the Games hop onto a tram in Milan, taking a tour of the city's historical sites, and performers and musicians take the tram too. The tram arrives at the stadium and everyone leaves the tram to head to the stadium, including the two kids, whom one of them drops the Tina plush, but is picked up and returned to the kids by president of the Italian Republic, Sergio Mattarella, who also shows up live in the stadium. In addition, Italian actor Pierfrancesco Favino delivered a recitation of Giacomo Leopardi's poem "L'infinito". The score was led by Giovanni Andrea Zanon playing the 1716 Berthier Stradivarius violin. After this, the parade of nations commenced, beginning with Greece and ending with the host nation, Italy. Athletes from 93 countries paraded from four venues in Milan, Cortina d'Ampezzo, Livigno, and Predazzo, against the backdrop of dance music provided by producer DJ Mace; the Italian athletes marched as a remixed version of "Largo al factotum" from Rossini's opera The Barber of Seville was heard.
Following the parade, Italian actress Sabrina Impacciatore and dancers celebrated the 100 years of the Winter Olympic Games, first showcasing all the past Winter Olympics in backwards chronological order in a premade video through an animated sequence and then cutting to the live performance in the stadium. This entire segment featured the Games' mascots, Tina and Milo, in the premade video before the animated sequence. Music played during the segment included "Prisencolinensinainciusol" by Adriano Celentano. Prior to the official speeches by IOC President Kirsty Coventry and the Games' organising committee president Giovanni Malago, actress Brenda Lodigiani performed a segment on Italian hand gestures. Italian president Sergio Mattarella, after being introduced in a pre-filmed video segment depicting him riding a tram in Milan driven by Valentino Rossi, proceeded to declare the Games open.
